add RHC guidance for MV3 chrome extensions (#7864)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/docs/extensions/migrating/rhc/index.md

> ---

Reviewer: One other nit, can you rename the folder to "remote-hosted-code". Also would like to hear @jpmedley's opinion on whether this belongs into `migrate` or `concepts` in the new IA.

description: A reference for what to do when your extension is rejected from the Chrome Web Store becaue of Remotely Hosted Code.
date: 2023-11-23
updated: 2023-11-23
---

## What is Remotely Hosted Code?

Remotely Hosted Code, or RHC, is what the Chrome Web Store calls anything that is executed by the browser that is loaded from someplace other than the extension's own files. Things like javascript, wasm, etc. It **_does not_** include data - things like JSON or CSS.

## Why is RHC no longer allowed?

With Manifest v3 extensions now need to bundle _all_ code they are using inside the extension itself. In the past, you could dynamically inject script tags from any URL on the web.

## I was told my extension has RHC - what's going on?

If your extension was rejected during review with a [Blue Argon][blue-argon] error, then our reviewers believe that your extension is currently using Remotely Hosted Code. This is usually the result of an extension trying to add a script tag  with a remote resource (i.e. from the open web, rather than the files included in the extension), or <code>[fetch][fetch]</code>ing a resource to execute directly.

## How to spot RHC

> Spotting RHC isn't particularly difficult once you know what to look for. A great first option would be to check for the strings "http://" or "https://" in your project. If you have an RHC violation, then you would likely be able to locate them by finding that. If you have a full build system, or use dependencies from [npm][npm] or other third party sources, make sure you are searching the _compiled_ version of the code, since that is what is being evaluated by the store. If you are still unable to find the problem, then the next step would be to contact [One Stop Support][oss] They will be able to outline the specific violations, and what is needed to get the extension published as soon as possible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Spotting RHC isn't particularly difficult once you know what to look for. A great first option would be to check for the strings "http://" or "https://" in your project. If you have an RHC violation, then you would likely be able to locate them by finding that. If you have a full build system, or use dependencies from [npm][npm] or other third party sources, make sure you are searching the _compiled_ version of the code, since that is what is being evaluated by the store. If you are still unable to find the problem, then the next step would be to contact [One Stop Support][oss]. They will be able to outline the specific violations, and what is needed to get the extension published as soon as possible.
```

## What to do if a library is requesting the code

> Regardless of where the code comes from, it is not allowed to have RHC. This includes code you didn't author, but just happen to use as a dependency in your project. [Some developers][firebase-rhc-issue] using [Firebase][firebase] had this frustration when remote code was being included for use in [Firebase Auth][firebase-auth]. Even though this was a first party (i.e. Google owned) library - no exception is given for RHC. That code needs to be updated to either remove the RHC, or be able to be configured to not include it in the first place. If you end up hitting an issue where it isn't _your _code that is loading RHC, but a library that you are using, then the best course of action is to contact the library's author. Let them know that this is happening, and ask for either a workaround or code updates to remove it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Regardless of where the code comes from, it is not allowed to have RHC. This includes code you didn't author, but just happen to use as a dependency in your project. [Some developers][firebase-rhc-issue] using [Firebase][firebase] had this frustration when remote code was being included for use in [Firebase Auth][firebase-auth]. Even though this was a first party (i.e. Google owned) library - no exception is given for RHC. That code needs to be updated to either remove the RHC, or be able to be configured to not include it in the first place. If you end up hitting an issue where it isn't _your_ code that is loading RHC, but a library that you are using, then the best course of action is to contact the library's author. Let them know that this is happening, and ask for either a workaround or code updates to remove it.
```

## What if you can't wait for a library update

Some libraries will ship an update almost immediately after being notified, but others may be abandoned or take time to address the issue. Depending on _what_ is happening in the specific violation, you may not need to wait for them to move to be unblocked and complete a successful review. There are a number of options available to get back up and running quickly.

> 1. Audit the code.

Reviewer: Please turn this into `###` subsections.

Are you _certain_ that the code that is causing the request is needed? If it can just be deleted, or a library that is causing it can be removed - then we have an easy fix -  delete the code, and the job is done.

> Alternatively, is there another library that offers the same functionality? Try checking [npmjs.org](npmjs.org), github, or other sites for other options that fufill the same usecases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, is there another library that offers the same functionality? Try checking [npmjs.org](npmjs.org), GitHub, or other sites for other options that fulfill the same usecases.
```

> ### [Tree Shaking][tree-shaking]

Reviewer 2: I don't think it looks great when headings have external links. Could we rewrite the first line of the paragraph to include "Tree shaking" and put the link there instead?

e.g: [Tree Shaking][tree-shaking] allows tooling to automatically delete unused code that may be causing an RHC violation if it isn't being used...

Same feedback for the other headings with this.

Author: done

> If the code causing the RHC violation isn't actually being used, then it may be able to be automatically deleted by tooling. Modern build tools like [webpack](https://webpack.js.org/), [Rollup](https://rollupjs.org/), and [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/) (just to name a few) have a feature called tree-shaking. Once enabled on your build system, tree shaking should remove any and all unused code paths. This can mean that you not only have a more compliant version of your code, but a leaner and faster one too! It is important to note that not all libraries are able to be tree shaken, but many are. Some tools, like Rollup and Vite, have tree-shaking enabled by default. webpack [needs to be configured](https://webpack.js.org/guides/tree-shaking/) for it to be enabled. If you aren't using a build system as a part of your extension, but _are_ using code libraries, then we really encourage you to investigate adding a build tool to your workflow. They can help you write safer, more reliable and more maintainable projects.

Reviewer 2: Nit, since this seems unnecessary and there isn't really a perfect tree-shaking tool :)

```suggestion
If the code causing the RHC violation isn't actually being used, then it may be able to be automatically deleted by tooling. Modern build tools like [webpack](https://webpack.js.org/), [Rollup](https://rollupjs.org/), and [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/) (just to name a few) have a feature called tree-shaking. Once enabled on your build system, tree shaking should remove any unused code paths. This can mean that you not only have a more compliant version of your code, but a leaner and faster one too! It is important to note that not all libraries are able to be tree shaken, but many are. Some tools, like Rollup and Vite, have tree-shaking enabled by default. webpack [needs to be configured](https://webpack.js.org/guides/tree-shaking/) for it to be enabled. If you aren't using a build system as a part of your extension, but _are_ using code libraries, then we really encourage you to investigate adding a build tool to your workflow. They can help you write safer, more reliable and more maintainable projects.
```

The specifics of how to implement treeshaking depends on your specific project. But to take a simple example with Rollup, you can add treeshaking just by compiling your project code. In practice, if we had a simple file that justs logs into Firebase Auth, called main.js

```js
import { GoogleAuthProvider, initializeAuth } from "firebase/auth";

> chrome.identity.getAuthToken({ 'interactive': true }, async (token) => {

Reviewer 2: Could we fix the indentation here?

```sh
npx rollup --input main.js --plugin '@rollup/plugin-node-resolve' --file compiled.js
```

Running that command in a terminal window, you will receive a generated version of our `main.js` file, all compiled into a single file named `compiled.js`.

Rollup can be simple, but it is also _very_ configurable. You can add all kinds of complex logic and configuration, just check out their [documentation][rollup-docs]. Adding build tooling like this will result in a smaller, more efficient code, and in this case, fixes our Remote Hosted Code issue.

### Automatically editing files

An increasingly common way that remotely hosted code can enter your codebase is as a subdepenency of a library you are including. If library `X` wants to `import` library `Y` from a CDN, then you will still need to update it to make it load from a local source. With modern build systems, you can trivially create plugins to extract a remote reference, and either inline it directly into your code.

That would mean that given code that looks like this

```js
import moment from "https://unpkg.com/moment@2.29.4/moment.js"
console.log(moment())
```

We could make a small rollup plugin

```js

> import { existsSync } from 'fs';

Reviewer 2: Same thought on indentation.

### [chrome.debugger][chrome.debugger]

The chrome.debugger API gives extensions the ability to interact with the [Chrome Devtools Protocol](https://chromedevtools.github.io/devtools-protocol/). This is the same protocol that is used for Chrome's Devtools, and an [amazing number of other tools](https://github.com/ChromeDevTools/awesome-chrome-devtools). With it, an extension can request and execute remote code. Just like User Scripts, it is not a substitute for chrome.scripting, and has a much more notable end user experience. While it is being used, the user will see a warning bar at the top of the window. If the banner is closed or dismissed, the debugging session will be terminated.

> {% Img src="image/DXqUldooyJOUnj3qXSYLHbUgUI93/SyeEuVZINxlaVnCHqqo2.jpg", alt="screenshot of the URL bar in Chrome that has the message 'Debugger Extension started debugging this browser'", width="800", height="18### %}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{% Img src="image/DXqUldooyJOUnj3qXSYLHbUgUI93/SyeEuVZINxlaVnCHqqo2.jpg", alt="screenshot of the URL bar in Chrome that has the message 'Debugger Extension started debugging this browser'", width="800", height="18" %}
```

### [Sandboxed iframes][sandboxed_iframes]

If you need to evaluate a string as code, and are in a DOM environment (e.g. a content script, as opposed to a background service worker), then another option would be to use a [sandboxed iframe][sandboxed_iframes]. Extensions don't support things like `eval` by default as a safety precaution - a malicious code could put user safety and security at risk. But when the code is only executed in a known safe environment, like an iframe that has been sandboxed from the rest of the web, then those risks are greatly reduced. Within this context, the Content Security Policy that blocks the usage of eval can be lifted, allowing you to run any valid javascript code.

If you have a use case that isn't covered, feel free to reach out to the team via the [chromium-extensions][chromium-extensions] mailing list to get feedback, or open a new ticket to request guidance from [One Stop Support][oss]

> ## What to do if it is just wrong

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## What to do if you disagree with a verdict
```

Author: oh thats less fun

> The Chrome Web Store is run by humans, and as a result the reviews are not always 100% perfect. If you believe that a mistake was made in review, you can appeal the rejection via [One Stop Support][oss]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enforcing policies can be nuanced and review involves manual input, which means we may sometimes agree to change a review decision. If you believe that a mistake was made in review, you can appeal the rejection via [One Stop Support][oss].
```

Reviewer 2: I realise the point you're trying to make, but I think the previous wording made it sound a little too much like we're trying to pass blame on to reviewers? It also felt a little bit to me like we were implying there isn't good quality control.

Author: Interesting - I read yours with the same concern, but more...clinical. Im not passionate about the matter, so acquiescing on it :)
